---
title: Afghanistan
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      clan_oppression: very_strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
    revolutionaries_or_paramilitary_groups:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      clan_oppression: very_strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
    organized_crime:
      islamic_oppression: moderate
      clan_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: moderate
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
---
### An Overview of Bible Access in Afghanistan

Afghanistan's population exceeds 43 million, but the Christian community
is estimated at only a few thousand, equivalent to less than 0.02% of
the population. These believers, almost exclusively converts from Islam,
remain one of the most hidden and at-risk faith communities in the
world. Access to Bibles in Afghanistan is not merely limited; it is
nearly impossible. Experts estimate that less than one-third of Afghan
Christians have any access to Scripture, underscoring a very significant
need.

All forms of Bible importation, printing, storing, distributing, or
owning are illegal and punishable with severe consequences, including
digital access. While foreign expatriates may be allowed to bring
personal copies of the Bible in their own language, such exceptions do
not extend to Afghan citizens. The Taliban's return to power in 2021 has
only tightened restrictions, enforcing a harsher interpretation of
Islamic law and actively monitoring online activity. As a result, even
reading the Bible on a mobile phone is widely considered unsafe. The
risk is not just theoretical. Muslim Background believers or MBBs often
face pressure from their own families, communities, and local
authorities, and exposure can lead to forced marriage, imprisonment, or
execution.

These restrictions are compounded by the country's socio-economic
challenges. Over half of Afghanistan's population lives in poverty, and
the country is experiencing a humanitarian crisis with nearly two-thirds
requiring urgent aid. With only 18% of the country connected to the
internet, and far fewer women using digital platforms, digital Bible
access is not a reliable solution. Literacy presents another hurdle, as
barely 40% can read, even including the younger population, meaning many
grow up with limited educational opportunity and no spiritual resources.
For women, the picture is even bleaker. Under Taliban rule, they are
banned from attending secondary school or working with NGOs, making it
nearly impossible for Christian women to find support or safe access to
Scripture.

Further complicating access is Afghanistan's fractured geography and
displacement crisis. Over 3.2 million people are internally displaced,
and hundreds of thousands have been deported from Iran and Pakistan in
recent months. These refugee communities are often cut off from both
infrastructure and networks of support, including Bible access. With
tight Taliban control and rising surveillance, even underground church
activity has become nearly undetectable, though it still exists.

### What is Blocking Bible Access in Afghanistan?

**An Underground Faith in a Hyper-Controlled State**

In Afghanistan, the barriers to Bible access are not merely
institutional; they are existential. Christianity is officially denied
and socially rejected, and under the Taliban's strict enforcement of
Islamic Sharia law, any form of conversion from Islam is considered
apostasy, punishable by death.

Afghan Christians, almost all of whom are MBBs, must practice their
faith in absolute secrecy, as even suspicion of possessing a Bible can
trigger violent repercussions, arrest, or forced disappearance.

**Constant Surveillance and Fear**

Owning a Bible or even digital Christian materials is extremely
dangerous. The Taliban conducts arbitrary phone checks and home raids,
and in rural areas where tribal customs and surveillance are even
stricter, Christians are often monitored by their own families,
neighbors, and local religious leaders.

Any deviation from expected Islamic behaviors, such as failing to attend
mosque regularly, can raise red flags, and MBBs risk being reported,
interrogated, or executed, especially if found in possession of
Scripture.

**Systemic Discrimination and Lack of Freedom**

At every level of life: private, family, community, national, and
church, Christians are under intense pressure. They cannot legally
register their faith, raise children in Christian values, or meet for
worship, and there are no public churches. MBBs often hide their faith
from their own families, fearing betrayal.

Attempts to share faith or disciple others are fraught with risk, and
house churches, where they exist, operate in near-total isolation and
silence.

**The Taliban's Control Over Media and Education**

All media is state-controlled or heavily censored, and the Taliban has
reinforced ideological control through the education system. Religious
content in schools is strictly Islamic, and Christian parents must send
their children to madrassas or risk exposing their faith.

Taliban propaganda also fuels suspicion against aid groups and NGOs,
many of whom have had to suspend work due to restrictions, cutting off
humanitarian avenues that might otherwise support Christian communities
or discreetly distribute Bibles.

**Technological Limitations and Government Surveillance**

With only 18.4% of the population having internet access and widespread
government surveillance through digital networks, even online Bible
access is limited and risky. The Taliban has installed tens of thousands
of surveillance cameras across Kabul and intends to expand this system
nationwide.

Any engagement with Christian content, online or offline, can lead to
investigation, especially since biometric data systems from the previous
government are now reportedly accessible to Taliban authorities.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Afghanistan

![](/images/countries/AF_chart.png)

**Reference**: The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind it.

In Afghanistan, multiple persecution forces operate simultaneously to
restrict Bible access, including **Islamic** **oppression**,
**dictatorial paranoia**, **clan oppression**, and **organized
corruption and crime**. These forces are fueled by Taliban government
officials, Muslim religious leaders, ethnic group leaders, ordinary
citizens, and extended family members.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression: Criminalizing Christian Faith**

Under Taliban rule, Islamic oppression remains the most powerful
persecution driver. Afghan citizens are assumed to be Muslim, and
conversion to Christianity is seen as an act of treason and apostasy
punishable by death. The Taliban government actively enforces radical
Islamic law throughout the country, making any deviation from Islamic
norms, including the possession or sharing of Bibles, extremely
dangerous. MBBs must hide their faith at all costs; being discovered can
lead not only to personal harm but also to repercussions against their
family and community.

Moreover, Islamic religious leaders, empowered by the Taliban's
ideology, play an active role in monitoring and reporting on suspected
MBBs. Mosque attendance is strictly enforced, and any irregularity can
raise suspicion. This makes it extremely risky for Christians to possess
Scripture, even in digital form, as arbitrary phone checks and local
surveillance are common.

The broader radicalization of society under Taliban governance has
increased the hostility toward anything perceived as Western, including
Christianity and the Bible. Bible access is seen not just as a legal
violation but as a betrayal of Afghan and Islamic identity.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: Crushing All Dissent**

The Taliban's dictatorial rule exacerbates the risks Christians face.
After the 2021 takeover, the Taliban dismantled Afghanistan's
constitutional protections and imposed strict Sharia law nationwide.
This political environment leaves no room for religious minorities,
particularly MBBs, to legally or socially exist.

In practice, this means there is no legal pathway for Christians to
gather, distribute Bibles, or even privately own Scripture. Government
officials, especially those tied to the Ministry for the Promotion of
Virtue and Prevention of Vice, enforce ideological conformity through
intimidation, arrests, and, at times, disappearances, and Christians
caught with Bibles risk being branded as enemies of the state or agents
of foreign powers.

Furthermore, access to information, including Christian materials
online, is heavily monitored. While some digital avenues currently
remain, the Taliban's increasing investment in surveillance technologies
poses a growing threat.

**Clan Oppression: Loyalty Over Faith**

Beyond governmental oppression, Afghanistan's deeply entrenched tribal
and clan-based society creates another powerful barrier. Loyalty to
family, tribe, and ethnicity is paramount, and abandoning Islam is
viewed as a betrayal of both religion and family honor.

MBBs face immense pressure from their extended families and local
communities. Discovery of a Bible, even through a child, a neighbor, or
a relative, can trigger violent retaliation meant to "restore honor".
In many cases, families may enforce punishment, resulting in expulsion,
forced marriage, imprisonment at home, or death.

This intense clan surveillance means that Bible ownership cannot simply
be hidden by discretion. It requires complete concealment of one's
identity and faith life, leaving underground believers extremely
isolated.

**Organized Corruption and Crime: Exploiting Vulnerability**

Although the Taliban has made efforts to reduce corruption, organized
crime networks remain active, particularly in southern Afghanistan. In
this environment, Christians are uniquely vulnerable.

Exposed believers may face extortion or be used as leverage by corrupt
local officials, criminal gangs, or paramilitary groups. Smuggling
Bibles, either physically or digitally, becomes even more perilous when
combined with local corruption, leading to arbitrary arrest,
imprisonment, or demands for bribes.

Additionally, Afghanistan's significant economic collapse and widespread
poverty have made survival the priority for most citizens. Amid this
desperation, the economic value of turning in a suspected MBB, or
exploiting one, has risen, making hidden Bible ownership even more
precarious.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Afghanistan

Despite the long, rich history of Christianity in Afghanistan dating
back to the second century, the Gospel has vanished from public view in
modern times. Officially, the Taliban government denies the very
existence of Christians in the country. Thousands of Christians remain
hidden, living under the constant threat of exposure, imprisonment, or
death.

For the existing but underground church, mostly made up of MBBs, **less
than 10,000 Bibles** are required to meet the current needs of
believers, many of whom have never held a copy of God's Word in their
hands.

**A Growing Church, A Growing Demand**

The need is magnified by the remarkable but silent growth of the church.
Over the last five years, the Christian community has grown despite the
climate of fear and the deadly consequences of conversion. This
spiritual awakening has happened not through mass evangelism or visible
outreach, but through secret Bible studies, radio broadcasts, and the
quiet witness of believers willing to risk everything. To sustain and
support this movement, access to Bibles is not just important, it is
necessary.

**Bible Formats for Unique Needs**

In terms of format, digital access is a lifeline. **Bible apps**,
especially in Dari and Pashto, are the most practical and least risky
method of access, followed by **internet resources**. Printed Bibles,
while dangerous to possess, remain valuable in certain secure settings.

**The Translation Gap**

Language remains a major obstacle. Christians in Afghanistan speak at
least 26 languages. Of these languages:

- Only 15 have a full Bible translation.
- 2 languages have only the New Testament.
- 4 have only portions of Scripture translated.
- 5 more remain completely without a single verse of the Bible in their
  language.

This leaves entire communities without access to God's Word in a form
they can understand. For a faith that thrives on the personal reading
and hearing of Scripture, this gap is critical.

### The Clarion Call

Afghanistan stands at a spiritual tipping point. In a country ravaged by
war, ruled by fear, and choked by oppression, a quiet hunger for truth
is growing. The underground church is not asking for safety or comfort;
rather, they are asking for Bibles.

To the global Church, let us respond with urgency, creativity, and
courage by laboring in prayer, funding translation projects, and
supporting secure Bible distribution to ensure that no believer in
Afghanistan is left without the living Word of God to sustain them in
their darkest hour.

**How to Pray for Afghanistan:**

- **Pray for Internet Access**: Ask God to open safe digital pathways
  for believers to access the Bible discreetly and without risk.

- **Pray for Protection**: Intercede for the safety of Afghan
  Christians, especially women and youth, who are extremely vulnerable
  under the current regime.

- **Pray for Global Support and Innovative Strategies**: Ask for wisdom,
  courage, and creative solutions among global Christian networks to
  reach Afghan believers with Scripture despite restrictions.

