---
title: Bangladesh
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      religious_nationalism: medium
      ethno_religious_hostility: medium
      clan_oppression: weak
      christian_denominational_oppression: very_weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: medium
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      religious_nationalism: strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      religious_nationalism: strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      religious_nationalism: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    violent_religious_groups:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      religious_nationalism: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: moderate
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      religious_nationalism: extreme
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      religious_nationalism: extreme
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    political_parties:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      religious_nationalism: strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    revolutionaries_or_paramilitary_groups:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      religious_nationalism: strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
    organized_crime:
      islamic_oppression: moderate
      religious_nationalism: moderate
      ethno_religious_hostility: moderate
      clan_oppression: moderate
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: moderate
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Bangladesh

Bangladesh, with a population of approximately 175 million, is home to
around 1.1 million Christians, making up less than 1% of the population.
This small Christian community faces considerable challenges in
accessing Bibles. It is estimated that about half of the believers in
Bangladesh have access to a Bible, highlighting a critical need.

The nation is a complex blend of economic progress and persistent
hardships. While Bangladesh has seen improvements in infrastructure,
with nearly universal electricity coverage and internet access reaching
about half of the population​, deep-seated poverty remains a major
barrier to Bible access. Around 25% of the population lives in
multidimensional poverty, meaning that even when Bibles are available,
affordability remains a major obstacle as priority is given to basic
needs. Additionally, literacy rates stand at approximately 75%, meaning
a significant portion of the population cannot easily read printed
Bibles​. This highlights the need for audio Bibles and digital resources
to reach those who cannot access written Scripture.

Accessing Bibles in Bangladesh is further complicated by legal and
regulatory challenges. The Printing Presses and Publications
(Declaration and Registration) Act of 1973 requires government approval
for the printing and publication of any book, including the Bible.
Additionally, imported Bibles have been blocked at customs on occasion,
creating further distribution barriers. While outright Bible bans do not
exist, these restrictions, along with social pressures, create a climate
of limited access for many believers.

For Muslim Background believers or MBBs, obtaining a Bible is even more
dangerous. MBBs often face ostracization, harassment, and even threats
of violence from family and community members. In some cases, simply
owning a Bible can put a MBB's life at risk, and many are forced to
practice their faith in secret, making discreet Bible distribution
methods essential.

The Rohingya refugee crisis adds another layer of complexity. Bangladesh
currently hosts nearly one million Rohingya refugees, primarily in Cox's
Bazar​. These refugees, mostly Muslim, represent both a significant
challenge and a unique opportunity for the Gospel. Reports indicate that
small groups of Rohingya Christians have emerged within the camps, yet
Bible access remains nearly impossible. These new believers urgently
need Bibles in Chittagonian and Rohingya dialects​.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Bangladesh?

#### A Region Under Siege

One specific example can be found in Bangladesh's Chittagong Hill
Tracts, home to many ethnic minorities---including a significant number
of Christians---owning a Bible can be a dangerous risk. This region has
long been plagued by land disputes, armed insurgencies, and ethnic
conflicts, making it one of the most challenging places for Christians
to access Scripture. The Bawm Christian community, in particular, has
faced escalating violence, with at least 12 Bawm Christians killed
between April and June 2024 in the wake of anti-insurgency operations by
the government​. The unrest has forced many Christians to flee, leaving
behind their homes, churches, and Bibles.

The persecution extends beyond ethnic Christian communities. Rohingya
Christian refugees in the camps of Cox's Bazar face threats from radical
Islamic groups operating within the camps, where MBBs live in constant
fear of harassment, abduction, and forced conversion. With movement
restrictions and limited resources, they are unable to access Bibles or
practice their faith freely.

#### Daily Risks and Bible Access

For many Christians in Bangladesh, owning, reading, or distributing
Bibles carries significant risks. In rural areas, MBBs face severe
backlash from their communities. Many are ostracized, beaten, or
pressured to return to Islam. In extreme cases, MBBs are falsely accused
of crimes, harassed by local authorities, or driven out of their
villages​.

Even historical Christian communities, such as the Roman Catholic Church
and Protestant denominations, have faced increasing threats. Churches in
Dhaka and northern Bangladesh were targeted amid political unrest in
2024, leading to their closure and disruption of Bible distribution
efforts. Additionally, Christian literature is closely monitored, and in
some cases, police and local vigilante groups have raided homes and
confiscated Bibles from suspected MBBs.

#### Poverty and Practical Barriers

Beyond persecution, economic hardship and systemic discrimination
further limit Bible access in Bangladesh. With nearly 25% of the
population living below the poverty line, many families cannot afford a
printed Bible. In rural communities, Christians are often denied access
to education, jobs, and financial assistance, leaving them economically
vulnerable. MBBs particularly struggle to find employment, making it
nearly impossible to purchase a Bible.

#### Digital Barriers and Literacy Challenges

While Bangladesh has internet connection for almost half of the country,
access to digital Bibles remains limited. In rural areas, however, only
around 30% of households have internet access, and smartphone ownership
among women is significantly lower than among men. Additionally,
government surveillance under the Cyber Security Act has heightened
fears of online persecution. Christians engaging in digital evangelism
or Bible-sharing on social media face harassment, threats, and potential
legal action under blasphemy laws​.

Literacy is another major barrier. While 75% of Bangladeshis are
literate, functional literacy remains low, particularly in remote
regions where many Christians reside​. Audio Bibles could bridge this
gap, but the availability of such resources in local languages is
scarce.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Bangladesh

#### *Refer to the Chart Below. The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind it.* 

![](/images/countries/BD_chart.png)

As you can see in the chart, persecution against Christians in
Bangladesh is fueled by multiple forces, with **dictatorial paranoia**
and **Islamic oppression** being the strongest, followed by
**ethno-religious hostility** and **organized corruption and crime**.
These forces collectively are driven by **government officials**,
**non-Christian religious leaders**, **violent religious groups**,
**political parties**, and even from **normal citizens** and **extended
family**. This multi-faceted web of pressure creates an environment
where Bible access is severely restricted, particularly for converts
from Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

#### Dictatorial Paranoia: Government-Sanctioned Discrimination

Bangladesh's previous government, led by Sheikh Hasina, systematically
silenced opposition voices and marginalized religious minorities,
including Christians. While Hasina's removal in August 2024 created
temporary uncertainty, radical Islamic factions and nationalist groups
have since filled the power vacuum, leading to greater persecution​.

In May 2024, Sheikh Hasina made inflammatory claims that Christians were
conspiring to establish an independent Christian state by seizing land
from Bangladesh and Myanmar, fueling societal hostility against the
Christian minority. These accusations reinforced the perception that
Christians are outsiders, making it even harder for believers to access
Bibles without fear of reprisal.

Local government officials have also played a role in obstructing Bible
access by restricting church activities, surveilling Christian
gatherings, and enforcing bureaucratic hurdles for Christian
organizations seeking registration. With the increasing influence of
radical Islamic groups in politics, these restrictions have only
intensified.

#### Islamic Oppression: A Climate of Fear and Intimidation

Radical Islamic groups such as Jamaat-e-Islami, Hefazat-e-Islam, and
Jamaatul Mujahedin Bangladesh (JMB) actively target Christians,
particularly those involved in evangelism​. MBBs are at the highest risk;
they are ostracized, threatened, and, in some cases, physically attacked
for owning a Bible.

Ordinary citizens are often mobilized against Christians, with community
leaders spreading propaganda that frames Bible distribution as a foreign
conspiracy. In some regions, mobs have raided Christian homes,
confiscating or destroying Bibles.

Islamic militants have also infiltrated refugee camps, where a small
number of Rohingya Christians are subjected to abductions and forced
conversions​. With little access to digital resources and the constant
threat of violence, obtaining a Bible in these settings is nearly
impossible.

#### Ethno-Religious Hostility: Persecution of Christian Ethnic Minorities

The Chittagong Hill Tracts, home to many ethnic minorities, is a hotspot
for persecution. The predominantly Christian Bawm tribe has been
disproportionately affected by government crackdowns and communal
violence. Between April and June 2024, at least 12 Bawm Christians were
killed, with many others fleeing for safety.

Ethnic group leaders, particularly among Buddhists and Hindus, also
resist conversions to Christianity, pressuring new believers to renounce
their faith. Christian converts from tribal backgrounds are often denied
community resources, barred from educational opportunities, and driven
from their ancestral lands​.

#### Organized Corruption and Crime: Land Grabbing and Economic Suppression

Corrupt local officials and land-grabbing mafias exploit Christian
minorities, particularly in rural areas. Many Christian families have
lost their homes due to fraudulent legal claims, leaving them displaced
and without access to their Bibles​.

Christian businesses are frequently boycotted, and believers struggle to
secure employment, making it financially difficult for them to acquire a
Bible. In some instances, Christian shop owners have been forced to
close their businesses entirely due to community-led harassment
campaigns​.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Bangladesh

Against the backdrop of persecution, poverty, and linguistic barriers,
Bible access in Bangladesh remains critically limited. Among the
estimated 1.1 million Christians the demand for Bibles is urgent.
Current estimates suggest that between **100,000 and 250,000** copies
are needed to ensure that believers have access to Scripture.

#### A Growing Church, A Growing Demand

With all the challenges, the Church in Bangladesh remains stable. Some
new believers, particularly from indigenous and tribal communities, have
come to faith and require Bibles in their own languages. The need is
especially pronounced among groups like the Bawm, Santal, Marma, and
Tripura, where language barriers prevent many from accessing Scripture.
Additionally, many traditional Christians do not own a Bible, further
underscoring the need for widespread distribution.

#### Bible Formats for Diverse Needs

Given the economic and technological landscape of Bangladesh, the
primary need is for printed Bibles. However, the demand for audio Bibles
is also significant, estimated around 250,000, specifically for new
believers who face persecution and cannot openly own a physical Bible.
Digital Bibles, while valuable, remain a lower priority due to limited
internet access.

#### The Challenge of Bible Translations

Bangladesh's linguistic diversity presents a significant challenge to
Bible access. While Bengali is the dominant language, many tribal
Christians speak other languages, making Bible translations essential
for their spiritual growth. Among the 50 languages spoken in the
country, only 31 have a complete Bible translation, while 11 have only
the New Testament, and 1 has limited portions of Scripture. Alarmingly,
**7 languages have no Bible translations at all**.

Efforts to translate the Bible into these remaining languages are
critical for reaching the millions of believers and seekers who are
still waiting for Scripture they can fully understand. There is an
urgent need for translations in languages like Marma, Tripura, and
Santal, where large Christian populations remain without access to God's
Word in their heart language. Without these translations, entire
communities are left spiritually isolated, highlighting the pressing
need for ongoing translation projects to bridge this gap.

#### The Clarion Call

The need for Bibles in Bangladesh is urgent. More than a logistical
challenge, it represents a spiritual hunger and a cry for hope. In a
nation where believers face discrimination, economic hardship, and
growing pressure from radical Islamic groups, access to Scripture is a
lifeline. To bridge this gap, a strategic effort is required:
prioritizing **printed and audio Bibles**, expanding **translation
projects**, and ensuring that every believer, from the cities to the
most remote tribal villages, has the opportunity to engage with God's
Word. By meeting this need, we can empower the Church in Bangladesh to
stand firm in faith, grow in discipleship, and bring the gospel to those
who have yet to hear.

**How to Pray for Bangladesh**

- **Access and Affordability:** Pray for increased access to Bibles and
  for solutions that make them affordable for believers. Ask God to open
  doors for **low-cost or free Bible distribution** in Bangladesh.

- **The Rohingya Refugees:** Pray for **the spread of the Gospel among
  the Rohingya people**, that they would be strengthened and protected,
  and that they would have access to Bibles in their language. Currently
  only the New Testament is available in their language, and only a
  portion of the New Testament is available in audio format.

- **Global Partnerships and Resources:** Ask the Lord to mobilize
  **strong partnerships** and resources worldwide to meet the Bible
  needs of the Church and seekers of truth. Pray for organizations
  working to translate, print, and distribute Bibles and for safe ways
  to get Scripture into the hands of believers.

