---
title: Burkina Faso
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      clan_oppression: medium
      christian_denominational_oppression: very_weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    christian_religious_leaders:
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
    violent_religious_groups:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      organized_corruption_and_crime: very_strong
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    organized_crime:
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Burkina Faso

Burkina Faso's Christian population comprises nearly 6.2 million
believers, around 26% of the national population of almost 24 million
people. Yet, despite this sizable community, Bible access remains a
significant challenge due to considerable restrictions. Estimates
suggest that barely 1 of 5 Christians have direct access to the Word of
God, underscoring a pressing need across the nation.

While importing Bibles into the country remains possible, primarily
through the capital, Ouagadougou, this alone does not guarantee
distribution. Almost half of the country is impacted by the terror and
violence of jihadist groups such as JNIM, ISWAP, Boko Haram, and
Ansaroul Islam. In these regions, it is dangerous to own, store, or
distribute Bibles. Approximately half of the Christian population of
Burkina Faso live in these regions and face life-threatening risks for
even possessing Scripture. Reports have documented cases of churches
being burned down with Bibles destroyed, congregations attacked during
worship, and believers displaced en masse due to their faith.

The security situation has dramatically worsened in recent years. Since
2015, Burkina Faso has been gripped by a devastating insurgency. More
than 2 million people are internally displaced, and militant jihadist
groups now exert their influence and terror in significant portions of
the north, east, and increasingly, the central corridor of the country.
In these areas, distributing or even visibly owning a Bible could
provoke abduction, assault, or worse.

Though there is no official government restriction on owning Christian
literature, the volatility of these regions makes safe Bible delivery
nearly impossible. Furthermore, Christians from a Muslim background face
added pressure, not only from militant groups but also from their own
families and communities. Muslim Background believers or MBBs often hide
their faith to avoid forced marriage, ostracism, or physical violence.

Beyond the security threats, widespread poverty and infrastructural
limitations deepen the crisis. Roughly 80% of the population practices
subsistence farming. Literacy stands at barely 50%, and only around 20%
of the population has access to the internet. These conditions severely
limit the effectiveness of digital, or even printed, Bible distribution.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Burkina Faso?

**A Nation in Crisis**

Bible access in Burkina Faso is severely hindered by a volatile mix of
lack of security, displacement, and economic hardship. Over the past few
years, jihadist groups have expanded their influence through terror,
particularly in the northern and eastern regions, where violence and
intimidation are widespread.

In these areas, Christians are often targeted explicitly because of
their faith. Churches have been burned, believers abducted or killed,
and entire communities forced to flee. According to recent reports, over
10,000 Christians were displaced for faith-related reasons in just one
year.

**Daily Risks for Bible Access**

In territories where jihadist are active, simply owning or reading a
Bible can be a death sentence. Believers risk being monitored, abducted,
or even executed. Christians are often afraid to express their faith
publicly, much less store or distribute Scripture. Homes and churches
have been looted or destroyed, and access to Christian media, whether
online or in print, is extremely limited due to security risks and fear
of reprisal.

**Displacement and Infrastructure Breakdown**

Waves of violence have created a humanitarian crisis. As of early 2024,
more than 2 million people, nearly 10% of the population, are internally
displaced, with many Christians among them. IDP camps offer little
safety or spiritual resources. Infrastructure has collapsed in many
regions, with over 5,000 schools and hundreds of health centers shut
down due to conflict.

These closures also affect Christian schools and churches, further
obstructing Scripture access and discipleship efforts.

**Poverty and Digital Limitations**

Burkina Faso is one of the world's least developed countries. Nearly 40%
of the population lives below the poverty line, and most depend on
subsistence farming. Bibles are unaffordable luxuries for many.
Compounding the issue is the digital divide, barely 20% of the
population has internet access, and Christian content online is often
blocked or surveilled in hostile zones. In rural regions, there is
little to no digital infrastructure to support access Scripture online.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Burkina Faso

***Reference:** The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind
it.*![](/images/countries/BF_chart.png)

In Burkina Faso, multiple forces of persecution work in tandem to
restrict Bible access, most notably: **Islamic oppression, dictatorial
paranoia, organized corruption and crime, and clan oppression.** These
are driven by violent Islamic groups, ethnic leaders, government
officials, and even family members. Their combined influence has created
a deeply hostile environment for Christians, especially in the north and
east, where violence, fear, and displacement have become a part of daily
life.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression: A Jihadist Campaign Against Faith**

Islamic oppression is the most dominant force restricting Bible access
in Burkina Faso. Since 2016, jihadist groups such as *Ansar ul Islam,
JNIM, and Islamic State Sahel Province* have launched violent efforts to
"Islamize" the country, often through horrific attacks specifically
targeting Christians. In the past year alone:

- **In Essakane (Feb 2024):** Militants stormed a Catholic church during
  worship, killing 15.

- **In Sanaba (Aug 2024):** 26 Christian men were tied up and their
  throats slit in front of others gathered for a Sunday service.

In many cases, entire Christian communities are forcibly displaced,
churches are burned, and MBBs are ostracized or threatened with death.
The use of roadblocks and checkpoints by militants often results in
Christians being identified and either kidnapped or executed on the
spot.

These conditions leave believers afraid to gather, carry Bibles, or even
access Christian material online, severely limiting Bible distribution
efforts and access to Scripture in many war-afflicted regions.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: Silencing Christian Witness**

The military regime in Burkina Faso, led by Captain Ibrahim Traor√©,
actively suppresses dissent and has created an environment where
Christian voices are marginalized. Government officials pressure church
leaders to avoid public discourse on justice or national policy. Those
who speak out risk being branded enemies of the state.

Even worse, the regime has criminalized criticism of the military,
preventing humanitarian organizations from negotiating access to
affected communities. This makes Bible distribution campaigns nearly
impossible in conflict-affected areas and fuels a culture of fear among
church leaders, many of whom have been targeted or abducted by armed
groups.

**Organized Corruption and Crime: Lawlessness and Impunity**

In many regions of Burkina Faso, criminal networks and jihadist groups
operate with impunity. These groups exploit the country's weak rule of
law to carry out kidnappings, extortion, and looting of Christian
properties. In 2024 alone, at least 100 churches were attacked or
destroyed.

Foreign aid workers, many of whom are Christian, have also been
kidnapped for ransom, further discouraging humanitarian involvement and
complicating Bible delivery efforts. In some areas, a *parallel state
structure* has formed, where militants replace local governments and
impose strict religious laws, banning Christian worship and eliminating
any form of Bible access.

**Clan Oppression: Pressure from Within**

In rural and tribal communities, clan and family structures are deeply
tied to Islamic tradition. MBBs face harassment, forced marriage, and
loss of inheritance from their own families. In some cases, female MBBs
are married off to Muslim men against their will, while Christian men
are cast out of their families or denied community resources.

Christian children are often pressured into Islamic instruction at
school or denied access to education altogether. These dynamics prevent
families from raising their children in the Christian faith or passing
down Bibles for generational discipleship.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Burkina Faso

Against the backdrop of persecution, displacement, and poverty, Bible
access in Burkina Faso remains critically low. To address this, **up to
3 million Bibles** are urgently needed to meet the spiritual needs of
both new and established believers across the nation.

**A Growing Church, A Growing Demand**

Despite the escalating violence, the Church in Burkina Faso has expanded
over the past five years, a testament to the resilience and hunger for
faith among the people. This encouraging growth adds to the urgency of
supplying Bibles.

As more believers come to faith, the gap between spiritual hunger and
Scripture availability continues to widen. Equipping this expanding body
with the Word of God is essential for discipleship, encouragement, and
endurance under persecution.

**Bible Formats for Diverse Needs**

**Printed Bibles** remain the most critical format, especially in rural
and areas where jihadists are active and electricity and internet access
are unreliable or nonexistent. **Audio Bibles** serve an equally vital
role, especially in communities with low literacy rates or for displaced
Christians living in camps where printed materials are impractical.

While digital Bibles are helpful in urban centers, security concerns and
low internet penetration (just under 20%) severely limit their
usefulness in high-risk zones.

**The Translation Gap**

Language diversity poses a major barrier to Scripture access. Christians
in Burkina Faso speak at least 76 languages. Of these languages:

- Only **20** of these have a full Bible translation

- **24** have only the New Testament

- **14** have just portions of Scripture translated

- **18 languages with no translation whatsoever.**

For many believers, this means they have no access to God's Word in a
language they can understand or relate to. Ongoing translation work and
the distribution of mother-tongue Bibles are urgently needed to bridge
this gap.

### The Clarion Call

The need for Bibles in Burkina Faso is more than a matter of logistics;
it is a spiritual emergency. In a country where believers are hunted,
displaced, and often left to worship in hiding, the Word of God is a
lifeline. It brings hope to the persecuted, guidance to the displaced,
and strength to the growing Church.

**How to Pray for Burkina Faso**

- **Protection and Safety:** Pray for God's protection (Psalm 91) over
  believers, especially those in areas where owning a Bible could cost
  them their life. Ask the Lord to make a way for Scripture to reach
  them---even under the radar of violent actors.

- **Peace and Freedom:** Ask God to bring an end to the violence. Pray
  for lasting peace across Burkina Faso so that believers can read,
  share, and live out the Word of God freely.

- **Global Partnerships and Support:** Pray for the global Church to
  rally in bold support, mobilizing the resources, partnerships, and
  innovative solutions needed to deliver Bibles into dangerous and
  hard-to-reach areas.

