---
title: Bahrain
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: medium
      clan_oppression: medium
      dictatorial_paranoia: medium
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: strong
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      clan_oppression: strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Bahrain

Bahrain's Christian population makes up around 12% of the country's
nearly 1.5 million residents, an estimated 184,000 believers. While over
80% of Christians have access to a Bible, this number doesn't tell the
full story. Access is highly dependent on considerable factors such as
legal status, religious affiliation, and connection to church networks.
Deep structural restrictions limit Bible access for non-Christians,
while even Christians face regulated channels for obtaining and storing
Scripture.

While the law does not criminalize Bible ownership for expatriate
Christians, the government maintains tight control over every aspect of
access, from importing to distribution. The Bible Society of the Gulf
(part of the United Bible Societies) is the only body officially
permitted to import Bibles, and churches connected to international
partners must follow strict guidelines. If there are delays in
importation or issues with customs, access suffers across the entire
Christian community. Printing Bibles within Bahrain is not permitted,
and storing Bibles is limited to only church property and officially
recognized Bible centers.

Distribution is another major barrier. While Christians can purchase
Bibles through their churches or affiliated bookstores, distribution
beyond these boundaries, especially to Muslims, is not allowed. Personal
Bible ownership is tolerated for Christian migrant workers, but Muslims
are legally prohibited from possessing Scripture. Furthermore, the
internet landscape in Bahrain is heavily monitored. While digital Bibles
may be available online, uncertainty around surveillance creates
hesitation and limits free engagement.

### What is Blocking Bible Access in Bahrain?

While Bible access in Bahrain is not entirely prohibited, it comes with
caveats---being highly regulated and restricted at multiple levels.
While Christians, especially expatriates, may own personal Bibles, the
ability to import, store, and distribute Scripture is tightly controlled
by the government, limiting broader access, especially for
non-Christians and those without church affiliation.

**Tight Government Control Over Bible Access**

The Bible Society of the Gulf is the only officially recognized body
permitted to import Bibles. Churches that maintain formal connections
with international bodies may also be allowed to bring in limited
quantities under strict guidelines, but these processes are highly
regulated and subject to delays.

No local printing of Bibles is allowed, and all storage is confined to
church buildings or Bible society facilities. This means that Bibles are
only accessible through controlled channels and primarily designated for
church congregants.

**Legal Barriers for Non-Christians**

Access to Bibles is virtually nonexistent for Muslim-background
individuals. While expatriate Christians can own and use personal copies
of the Bible, Muslims are not permitted to receive, possess, or be given
Bibles. Any attempt to distribute Bibles to Muslims is not only illegal
but could also provoke significant social backlash or legal action.

As a result, outreach is severely restricted, and seekers from a Muslim
background face significant barriers to engaging with Scripture.

**Subject to Surveillance and Censorship**

Distribution of Bibles, whether in print or digital form, is also
constrained by surveillance and censorship. Government monitoring of the
internet and social media platforms creates an atmosphere of caution.

Christians must exercise self-censorship, particularly with any content
that could be perceived as evangelistic or critical of Islam. Public
distribution or display of Christian materials is not permitted, and
churches cannot openly promote services in Arabic.

**Limited Storage and Infrastructure Constraints**

Only designated religious institutions are allowed to store Bibles, and
these are meant strictly for congregational use. This centralized model
of access significantly hampers the availability of Bibles, particularly
for individuals without church connections.

Despite a high rate of internet penetration in Bahrain, the fear of
surveillance discourages many from accessing digital Bibles freely.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Bahrain ![](/images/countries/BH_chart.png)

***Reference:** The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind it.*

In Bahrain, three key forces of persecution operate in tandem to
restrict Bible access. These are **Islamic oppression**, **clan
oppression**, and **dictatorial paranoia**. These forces are fueled by a
variety of actors: from government officials, non-Christian religious
leaders, extended family, and other citizens.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression**

Islamic oppression in Bahrain is deeply embedded in the legal and social
fabric. The Constitution technically permits religious freedom, but
under the condition that activities align with Islamic customs. Since
Islam is the state religion and Sharia is a principal source of
legislation, this effectively curtails religious expression outside
tightly controlled boundaries.

This oppression is most intense for Muslim Background believers or MBBs.
In 2024, there were reports of Bahraini MBBs being physically and
mentally abused by family members. These multiple instances usually
involve family members, local Islamic clerics, and sometimes even
government officials who pressure MBBs to recant their faith. To cite
one example, some MBBs were detained briefly by the government, as a
tactic to quell public unrest and coerce them back to Islam.

These pressures translate directly into Bible access issues. MBBs cannot
safely own or store Bibles at home, particularly in Shia families, where
strict adherence to Islam is expected. Privately possessing a Bible as
an MBB, especially if discovered by family, is likely to lead to
punishment or social isolation. In addition, poor and low-skilled
Christian workers, particularly domestic workers from Asia and Africa,
also face abuse. In 2024, at least 10 Christian housemaids were
physically or mentally abused, and their faith was noted as a
contributing factor to their vulnerability. In such cases, it's best to
keep Bibles hidden to avoid being targeted.

**Clan Oppression**

Tribal and familial identity is deeply intertwined with religion in
society. Conversion is perceived as a betrayal of one's lineage and
family honor, and extended families and tribal leaders act to pressure
or punish MBBs. In 2024, testimonies cited that Christian women face
beatings, threats of honor killing, forced marriage, and financial
control by male family members.

In such a context, Bible access becomes not just a legal issue but a
deeply relational and emotional battleground. Families may confiscate
Bibles, isolate MBBs from Christian fellowship, or monitor their
communication to ensure they are not engaging with Scripture. For MBBs
living in tightly knit communities or family homes, accessing a Bible,
whether physical or digital, can come at the cost of safety and
belonging.

**Dictatorial Paranoia**

Bahrain's authoritarian regime enforces broad restrictions on religious
freedom, civil society, and digital expression. The government is
especially wary of any activity that could appear to challenge public
order or Islamic values. Article 23 of the Constitution forbids any
action that contradicts "fundamental beliefs of Islamic doctrine," which
can be interpreted to include Christian evangelism or public Scripture
distribution.

As of 2024, the Bible Society of the Gulf remains the only entity
officially allowed to import Bibles. If delays occur, Scripture access
across the country suffers. Churches must exercise self-censorship and
are discouraged from integrating local MBBs or distributing Bibles
beyond their congregations. MBBs may be detained by authorities under
vague charges, adding state pressure to the already intense family and
social persecution.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Bahrain

Considering the issues of Bible access in Bahrain, it is estimated that
between **10,000-25,000 Bibles** are needed to meet the needs of the
Christian community. However, the challenge lies not in quantity alone,
but in the restrictive systems that control how Bibles are imported,
stored, and distributed.

**Supplying the Word of God to a Declining Church**

Compounding this need is the troubling trend of church decline. The Christian population in Bahrain has been shrinking in the last five years primarily due to 99% of Christians in the country being foreign guest workers, a decreasing population. However, this decline only increases the urgent need for Bibles. A Bible is not only a personal resource but a lifeline in a region where conversions are met with intense social and familial pressure, and public evangelism is restricted.

**Bible Formats for Unique Needs**

Access to Scripture in Bahrain must be tailored to real-life limitations. **Printed Bibles** remain the highest priority and **audio Bibles** offer a vital supplement for low-literacy users or those who cannot read fluently in the available print languages. However, internet-based access is risky, government monitoring and ambiguity around digital platforms create uncertainty, causing many believers to hesitate before engaging with online Scripture resources.

**The Translation Gap**

Language also presents a barrier. Christians in Bahrain speak at least 16 different languages, Of these languages:

- Only **12** have a full Bible translation.
- None of the remaining four languages have a New Testament or even just a portion of Scripture translated.

This leaves entire communities without access to God's Word in their heart language. Translation projects must continue to bridge this gap, with only 4 languages remaining.

**The Clarion Call**

Bahrain is often seen as tolerant compared to its neighbors, but this
masks the intricate layers of restriction that block Bible access.
Christians, especially MBBs and domestic workers, face a web of legal,
cultural, and technological constraints that isolate them from
Scripture. Behind the statistics is a deep spiritual hunger: not just
for information, but for transformation.

**How to Pray for Bahrain**

- **Pray for the Body of Christ**: Ask God to strengthen the Christian migrant community and provide wisdom for churches navigating strict access regulations.

- **Pray for Access Breakthroughs**: Pray for favor in logistics,
  importation, and distribution---especially for smoother coordination
  between churches and Bible organizations.

- **Pray for Open Doors**: Lift up Bahraini nationals and seekers. Pray
  for softened hearts and creative ways to share the Gospel legally and
  safely.

