---
title: Burundi
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_weak
      clan_oppression: very_weak
      christian_denominational_oppression: medium
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: very_strong
    christian_religious_leaders:
      christian_denominational_oppression: strong
    normal_citizens:
      christian_denominational_oppression: strong
    extended_family:
      christian_denominational_oppression: strong
    political_parties:
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
    organized_crime:
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: very_strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Burundi

Burundi's Christian population makes up an overwhelming
majority---almost 94% of the nation, totaling nearly 12.8 million
believers. Yet despite this strong Christian presence, less than a third
of them are estimated to have access to a Bible. This points to a deeply
rooted need for Scripture, even in a country where Christianity is
widespread.

Legally, there are no restrictions on Bible access in Burundi. This
makes Burundi one of the more open countries in the region. However,
practical challenges still hinder the spread of Scripture, particularly
in rural areas where infrastructure is limited and poverty is
widespread. Even when Bibles are available, many cannot afford to
purchase one.

Compounding this challenge is the country's surveillance landscape. In
2018, a law was passed allowing government agencies to intercept online
communications and seize computer data. This has expanded the state's
surveillance powers, and while accessing the Bible remains safe, this
has created an atmosphere of caution and hesitancy.

Furthermore, just over 10% of the population is connected to the
internet and has consistent electricity. This limits the viability of
digital Bible formats for many.

Despite these hurdles, the openness to Christian materials presents a
unique opportunity. Millions of Christians are still lacking access to
the Word of God. Meeting this need could have a transformative impact on
discipleship, spiritual growth, and gospel outreach across the country.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Burundi?

At first glance, Burundi presents a unique case: there are no formal
legal restrictions on owning, printing, importing, storing, or
distributing Bibles. Yet despite this legal openness, believers still
face persistent and growing barriers to accessing God's Word, especially
those outside the traditional religious structures.

**A Landscape of Surveillance and Fear**

Since 2018, government surveillance has intensified. With the passage of
Law No. 109, authorities were granted expanded powers to intercept
electronic communication and seize digital data. This has created a
chilling effect, particularly for Christians using mobile apps or online
platforms to share or access Scripture.

Additionally, the ruling party's youth wing, Imbonerakure, has been
widely reported for monitoring church activities, intimidating
congregants, and even disrupting worship gatherings that don't align
with government expectations.

**Discrimination and Pressure Against Non-Traditional Churches**

Burundi's majority-Catholic population has seen a rise in evangelical
and Pentecostal churches, which face mounting challenges. These include
forced closures, difficulty obtaining legal registration, and community
opposition.

Christians who choose to join or lead these churches may face social
exclusion, even within their families, and are often accused of "noise
pollution" or noncompliance with government criteria for religious
organizations.

**Economic and Infrastructure Barriers**

Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world, with over 60% of
the population living below the poverty line. While there may not be
legal obstacles to acquiring a Bible, economic realities often make it
an unreachable luxury for many households. Add to this the fact that
only about 11% of the population has internet access and just 14% live
in urban areas, and the pathway to digital Bibles becomes even narrower.

**A Church Under Pressure**

Government authorities have increasingly demanded loyalty from church
leaders and congregations, with some churches pressured to support
political narratives or risk losing their license to operate. In recent
years, dozens of Christians have been arrested or detained for
participating in unauthorized worship gatherings.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Burundi![](/images/countries/BI_chart.png)

**Reference:** The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind it.

In Burundi, persecution stems from several overlapping
forces---particularly **dictatorial paranoia, organized corruption and
crime,** and **Christian denominational protectionism**. These are
driven by state actors, political parties, religious leaders, organized
crime networks, and even families and local communities.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: Crushing Dissent, Silencing the Church**

The Burundian government exerts tight control over all sectors of
society: political, civil, and religious. Christians, especially leaders
who refuse to align with the ruling CNDD-FDD party, face intimidation,
surveillance, or worse. Churches that do not support the regime risk
being shut down.

In April 2024, 61 Christians from a local church in Ngozi province were
detained province for worshipping in an unauthorized location. Since
then, ten churches were closed because their pastors refused to
cooperate with political authorities.

Surveillance of church activities has become routine, with the youth
wing of the ruling party, the *Imbonerakure*, monitoring congregations
and reporting any signs of dissent. This environment of intimidation
leads many churches to self-censor, limiting their capacity to
distribute or even openly read Bibles. Christians who voice opposition
to injustice are at risk of arrest, beatings, or being forced to flee
their homes.

**Organized Corruption and Crime: A Climate of Fear and Impunity**

Corruption is embedded at every level of governance in Burundi, and this
affects Christians in deeply personal ways. Authorities are known to
detain or intimidate church leaders who speak against corruption, and
organized criminal networks, sometimes backed by the government, operate
with impunity. The *Imbonerakure* has also been implicated in violent
acts, including killings and property destruction.

In May 2024, Burundi's bishops publicly condemned a wave of political
murders and human rights violations. Reports confirm that many of these
acts, including abductions, target Christians, particularly those seen
as not supporting the regime. Bible possession or public religious
gatherings can become pretexts for harassment, especially when linked to
groups outside state favor.

**Christian Denominational Protectionism: Internal Barriers to Access**

While Burundi is a majority-Christian country, the growth of
non-traditional evangelical churches has created friction with dominant
Catholic circles. Traditional religious leaders, citizens, and even
extended family members often stigmatize believers who leave Catholicism
for newer denominations.

This pressure takes multiple forms: accusations of noise pollution
during worship, denial of church-building permits, and social ostracism.
Converts face pushback not only from local communities but even within
their own households. In educational settings, children from evangelical
families are sometimes harassed or subjected to biased curricula that
reflect only traditional religious norms.

Even within the Christian community, access to Bibles is hindered,
non-traditional churches often lack the political clout and formal
recognition needed to distribute Scripture widely. Registration laws
further complicate matters: churches must meet rigid requirements,
including having at least 300 members and engaging in socio-economic
activity, standards many smaller, evangelical churches cannot meet.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Burundi

Amid rising persecution and political instability, Bible access in
Burundi remains alarmingly low. With spiritual hunger growing across the
nation, it is estimated that **up to 3 million Bibles** are urgently
needed to meet the emerging needs of believers. These figures represent
more than numbers; they represent families, churches, and communities
longing for the comfort, guidance, and truth found in God\'s Word.

**A Rapidly Growing Church Demands Urgent Supply**

Despite a restrictive political climate and mounting pressure on
churches, the Body of Christ in Burundi is expanding. Over the last five
years, the Christian community has been expanding rapidly. That means
hundreds of thousands of new believers, many from non-traditional
denominations, are being added to the Church. However, the current lack
of Scripture severely limits the Church's ability to nurture faith,
equip leaders, and withstand persecution.

**Prioritizing the Right Bible Formats**

Given Burundi's rural population and poor infrastructure, **printed
Bibles** remain the most critical format. However, **audio Bibles** are
also essential, especially in communities with limited education or
access to written material.

Internet access is low (only 11%), and government surveillance of
digital communication adds another layer of caution for online
resources. To meet the diverse needs across age, region, and education
levels, a multi-format strategy must be deployed, with an emphasis on
printed and audio formats.

**Overcoming the Language Barrier**

Burundi is home to Christians who speak at least 11 languages. Of these
languages:

- Only **8** have a full Bible translation available.

- 1 language has only the New Testament.

- 1 has partial Scripture translated.

- **One language is without any Bible translation at all.**

This linguistic gap leaves thousands without access to God's Word in
their heart language. For a nation already battling oppression and fear,
hearing God speak in a familiar tongue can be life-changing. The good
news? Only one language remains in need of a Bible translation.

### The Clarion Call

The Church in Burundi is growing, but it is growing under pressure. As
Christians face government surveillance, church closures, and social
ostracism, the Bible becomes more than a source of spiritual truth; it
becomes a lifeline. Meeting this need is not just a logistical mission;
it is a spiritual imperative.

The global Church must rise to this moment. By prioritizing translation,
distribution, and format accessibility, we can help ensure that no
believer in Burundi is left without the life-giving words of Scripture.

**How to Pray for Burundi**

- **Wider Access to Bibles:** Ask God to open doors for more believers
  to receive their own copy of Scripture, especially in remote and
  impoverished areas.

- **Provision and Affordability:** Pray that Bibles---especially in
  printed formats---would become more affordable and accessible to those
  who hunger for God's Word.

- **Wisdom for Digital Strategy:** Pray for wisdom and protection over
  digital Bible distribution efforts in light of surveillance laws, that
  technology can still be used safely and effectively to reach many.

