---
title: Brunei
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: very_strong
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Brunei

Brunei's Christian population comprises roughly 12% of its nearly
460,000 inhabitants, amounting to an estimated 55,000 believers. On the
surface, it may seem that many Christians in Brunei have decent access
to the Bible (an estimate of over 70% of believers). However, the
reality on the ground shows a stark reality. Severe legal and societal
restrictions make access fragile and often dangerous, especially for
Muslim Background believers (MBBs) and indigenous believers whose heart
language is Malay.

Islam is not just the state religion in Brunei; it is inseparably woven
into national identity through the national philosophy, which enshrines
Malay ethnicity, Islamic faith, and monarchical rule as pillars of
public life. Under this ideology, Sharia law is enforced nationwide.
Furthermore, Sharia law criminalizes the distribution or propagation of
any non-Islamic religion, including the possession or sharing of Bibles
in the Malay language. Violations can lead to confiscation,
imprisonment, or steep fines, with penalties reaching up to five years
in prison.

Bibles are allowed only within limited contexts. Christians may possess
personal copies at home or within church buildings, but any form of
distribution, public display, or sharing is tightly controlled.
Importing Bibles, especially the Bahasa Malayu translation, is
officially banned, and Christian bookstores that once existed have been
shut down. There is no legal provision for public Christian literature
or online promotion. Surveillance is common, and digital activity,
including Bible downloads, is monitored by government authorities,
forcing many Christians into self-censorship and secrecy.

Non-Malay ethnic groups and expatriate Christians face somewhat less
scrutiny, but indigenous groups, especially those whose native language
is Malay, are under strict religious mandates. By law, all ethnic Malays
are considered Muslims from birth, and conversion is not recognized.
This makes the possession of a Bible in Malay an offense for these
believers. For Muslim-background believers and tribal Christians, the
danger of fines, arrest, and social ostracism is constant. While some
churches may store Bibles for limited use within congregations, even
this is vulnerable to confiscation under Sharia enforcement.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Brunei?

**A Nation Bound by Religious Control**

In Brunei, Bible access is heavily restricted by a legal and political
framework designed to reinforce Islamic dominance. The country operates
under the national ideology of *Melayu Islam Beraja* (Malay Islamic
Monarchy or MIB), which blends Malay identity, Islamic faith, and
loyalty to the Sultan. Under this system, Islam is deeply entrenched in
daily life, law, education, and governance.

While Christianity is technically permitted, the Sharia Penal Code
(SPC), which applies to both Muslims and non-Muslims, imposes severe
restrictions on religious expression. Public celebrations of
Christianity, including Christmas, are banned, and importing Bibles is
prohibited. Christians must practice their faith discreetly to avoid
running afoul of laws prohibiting evangelism or public expressions of
non-Islamic religions.

**Daily Pressures and Legal Threats**

Christians in Brunei, particularly MBBs, face intense surveillance and
social pressure. Sharing faith publicly, posting Christian content
online, or even wearing Christian symbols like a cross necklace can
result in harassment, fines, or imprisonment. MBBs risk severe penalties
under Sharia law, including imprisonment, physical punishment, or forced
rehabilitation if their change of faith is discovered.

Church gatherings are closely monitored, and unregistered Christian
groups cannot legally establish themselves. Even recognized churches
operate under tight restrictions and must routinely submit detailed
reports to government authorities.

**Islamization Through Education and Society**

A more subtle but powerful barrier comes through the education system.
In November 2023, Islamic religious education was made compulsory even
in private and international schools. All students, including
Christians, must participate in Islamic practices like the recitation of
Quranic verses, contributing to the erosion of distinct Christian
identity among young believers.

Additionally, Christians often face pressure to conform socially, such
as attending Islamic ceremonies or adhering to Islamic customs, further
marginalizing non-Muslim religious life.

**Economic and Social Disadvantages**

Beyond legal and societal pressures, economic incentives further block
Bible access. State-supported efforts to convert non-Muslims, especially
among indigenous groups, offer financial rewards and social benefits for
embracing Islam. Christians face discrimination in employment, public
service opportunities, and business activities, making it harder for
churches and believers to thrive.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Brunei

***Reference:** The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind
it.*![](/images/countries/BN_chart.png)

In Brunei, two primary persecution engines, **Islamic oppression** and
**dictatorial paranoia**, converge together to restrict Bible access.
These engines are driven by government officials, non-Christian
religious leaders, ethnic group leaders, and even extended family
members. Together, they create an environment of legal intimidation,
constant surveillance, and systemic discrimination against Christians,
especially MBBs.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression: Religious Conformity by Force**

Islamic oppression in Brunei is deeply woven into national identity
through the **Malay Islamic Monarchy** philosophy, which elevates Islam
as the moral and spiritual backbone of public life. The state actively
promotes Islam through mandatory education, state-sponsored media, and
aggressive "dakwah" (Islamic proselytization) initiatives, especially
in rural districts like **Temburong** and **Tutong**, where Christians
are offered welfare incentives to convert.

Christian evangelism and public faith expression are banned outside of
church premises. Public displays such as wearing a cross or celebrating
Christmas are subject to legal penalties, and even private religious
discussions risk being labeled as "propagation" of a non-Islamic
religion---an offense that can lead to imprisonment or hefty fines.

MBBs, are the most targeted. Conversion is both socially dishonorable
and legally punishable under **Sharia Penal Code Section 112(1)**, which
permits imprisonment or even the death penalty, although it has not been
enforced to date. Extended families often act as frontline enforcers of
religious conformity, reporting MBBs to the Ministry of Religious
Affairs or local security services.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: Absolute Control Through Religion**

Brunei has been under a declared **State of Emergency since 1962**,
consolidating all power under the Sultan, who is simultaneously the head
of religion, government, and military. This centralization enforces the
Islamic agenda and suppresses dissent. Religious enforcement officers
routinely monitor church activities, particularly those of unregistered
or non-traditional congregations. A recent example includes a **Catholic
priest being barred from entering Temburong district** after suspicions
of evangelism.

Under the guise of preserving harmony and tradition, **public criticism,
even on social media**, is viewed as sedition and an affront to the
Sultan himself. This creates widespread self-censorship among
Christians, who avoid sharing Scripture online or even discussing their
faith publicly, even in coded language.

Educational reforms implemented in **November 2023** further entrenched
the state's religious dominance by making **Islamic education
compulsory** for all students, including in private and international
schools. Christian children are now required to participate in Islamic
prayers and studies, eroding their religious identity from a young age.

Even practical matters like church registration and Bible importation
are affected by the system. Only six churches are officially registered,
and no new applications are accepted. Christian literature, including
Bibles, is routinely confiscated at airports, and importing printed
materials is banned.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Brunei

With a Christian population of approximately 55,600, this leaves
thousands without access to the Word of God. According to recent
estimates, less than **10,000 Bibles** are needed to meet the current
need; and another couple of thousand to support seekers (those who are
looking to explore the Christian faith). While the number may appear
small in comparison to other nations, the obstacles facing believers in
Brunei make every single copy deeply treasured.

**A Growing Church, A Growing Demand**

The urgency is heightened by some growth in the Christian population
over the past five years. Despite tight government controls and societal
pressure to conform to Islamic norms, the Church continues to grow
quietly and steadily. This growth, however, outpaces the availability of
Bibles, creating a critical gap in spiritual need, discipleship, and
evangelism. Without an increase in accessible Scripture, the expanding
Christian community is left vulnerable and spiritually under-resourced.

**Bible Formats for Unique Needs**

For Brunei, **printed Bibles remain the top priority**, especially for
MBBs and house churches that must operate discreetly under strict
religious laws. However, **digital access is increasingly viable**. With
internet penetration at 99%, many believers, particularly the younger
generation, turn to online platforms to read Scripture.

While Christian websites and Bible apps are subject to monitoring, they
can still be accessed safely with discretion and care. In this
environment, print offers privacy and permanence, but digital formats
provide a crucial secondary lifeline, especially for those unable to
obtain a physical copy.

**The Translation Gap**

Language remains another significant factor. Brunei's Christians speak
at least **26 different languages**. Of these languages:

- Only **15** of those have the full Bible translated.

- **4** have translations of only the New Testament.

- 1 has only a portion of Scripture translated.

- **6 languages still have no translation at all.**

For believers in these communities lacking translations, the Word of God
remains inaccessible in the language of their hearts, a gap that
urgently needs to be addressed through translation support.

### The Clarion Call

Brunei may be a small country, but the need is no less significant. The
cry for Scripture echoes from quiet living rooms, discreet fellowship
groups, and the hearts of new believers who risk much to follow Christ.
The need for Bibles in Brunei is not just a logistical issue, it is a
matter of spiritual survival.

**How to Pray for Brunei**

- **Opportunities to Access Bibles:**
  Pray for the doors of opportunity to swing wide open, allowing the
  Word of God to reach the hands and hearts of every believer in Brunei.
  Ask for innovation and courage to overcome the restrictive barriers,
  ensuring that every Christian can freely access the Bible to nourish
  their faith and spiritual life.

- **Growth and Influence of the Church:**
  Seek the Lord's intervention for the church in Brunei to flourish
  beyond the confines of stringent legal restrictions. As they get
  access to more Bibles, pray for growth not just in numbers, but in
  influence, enabling the church to become a voice of transformation.

- **Global Partnership and Support:**
  Pray for strong, global partnerships to enable increased Bible access
  and support to the local church. May these collaborations pave new
  ways for Bible access and fortify the church's presence, ensuring that
  the life-giving message of the Gospel spreads across the country.

