---
title: Bhutan
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      religious_nationalism: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: weak
      clan_oppression: weak
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      religious_nationalism: extreme
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      religious_nationalism: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
    normal_citizens:
      religious_nationalism: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    extended_family:
      religious_nationalism: extreme
      clan_oppression: extreme
    political_parties:
      religious_nationalism: strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Bhutan

Bhutan's Christian community comprises approximately 2.4% of the
nation's 792,000 inhabitants, equating to a minority just shy of 20,000
believers. Yet, it is estimated that roughly half of these believers
have access to a Bible, leaving the other half without access to the
Scriptures.

At first glance, Bhutan's infrastructure seems well-positioned to
support Bible access. The majority of the population has access to
electricity, and nearly 90% benefit from internet connectivity, offering
a potential platform for digital Scripture distribution. However, these
opportunities are sharply constrained by Bhutan's stringent religious
restrictions. A literacy rate of just over 70% further complicates the
situation, creating barriers to both printed and digital Bible formats
for much of the population.

Religious freedom and access to Bibles in Bhutan is tightly regulated,
particularly for the Christian minority. While expatriates are permitted
a personal Bible, they are strictly prohibited from storing or
distributing Scriptures. Bhutanese citizens face even harsher
restrictions under anti-conversion laws, which criminalize activities
such as sharing Bibles or Christian materials. These laws not only ban
the import, printing, and distribution of Bibles but also create a
climate of fear, leaving many believers unable to freely practice their
faith or access God's Word. In light of the situation in Bhutan,
research reveals a significant need for Bibles, numbering close to
10,000.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Bhutan?

#### Religious Nationalism and Cultural Dominance

Bhutan's identity is deeply intertwined with Mahayana Buddhism, which is
the country's state religion. While the government asserts religious
tolerance, Buddhism's dominance permeates Bhutanese society. This is
evident in the integration of religious and administrative roles within
local governance, where Buddhist monks hold significant influence.

Christians are not officially recognized as a religious group, and no
Christian congregation has been allowed to construct church buildings,
forcing them to worship in private homes. Converts, especially face
significant pressure from family and community members to return to
Buddhism or their original faith.

#### Legislative and Legal Barriers

Laws restricting religious freedom severely impede Bible access in
Bhutan. Anti-conversion laws, introduced in 2011, criminalize any act
perceived as coercing or inducing someone to change their religion. The
terms "coercion" and "inducement" are vaguely defined, granting
authorities broad discretion to interpret and enforce these laws.

As a result, Christians are cautious about openly practicing their faith
or distributing Bibles, as such activities are easily construed as
proselytization, punishable by fines or imprisonment.

#### Social Stigma and Family Opposition

Christian converts face the strongest opposition from their families,
who view conversion as a betrayal of Bhutanese culture and traditions.
This cultural rejection often results in disownment, exclusion from
inheritance rights, and loss of family support.

In Bhutan's communal society, such isolation is particularly
devastating. Additionally, local communities often view Christians with
suspicion, reporting them to authorities or ostracizing them for
disrupting social harmony.

#### Economic Discrimination

Christians frequently experience discrimination in employment and access
to public services. Many jobs and benefits require a "non-objection
certificate" (NOC) issued by local authorities. Known Christians often
struggle to obtain these certificates, barring them from opportunities
such as property registration, loans, and higher education.

This systemic bias not only impacts individual livelihoods but also
restricts the broader Christian community's growth and access to
resources, especially Bibles.

#### Risk of Possessing and Sharing Bibles

Owning a Bible or other Christian materials in Bhutan carries inherent
risks. Authorities and community members closely monitor Christians,
often confiscating religious materials found during inspections or
raids. Publicly displaying Christian symbols, such as crosses, invites
suspicion and harassment.

Digital access to Bibles is equally fraught, as Christians fear scrutiny
of their online activities, which could lead to accusations of promoting
Christianity or attempting conversions.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Bhutan

The chart below provides a visual representation of the forces of
persecution that heavily restrict Bible access. The more fully shaded
the circle in orange, the stronger the level of persecution. The number
of "+" signs indicates the frequency or intensity of the driving
factors behind it.

![](/images/countries/BT_chart.png)

As you can see in the chart, the main source of persecution engine
identified in Bhutan is **religious nationalism**, and the main drivers
are **government officials** and **extended family.** There is also
**clan oppression** driven by **extended family**. But primarily, the
government, Buddhist leaders, families, and broader society act as key
drivers, perpetuating pressure across every sphere of life for
Christians in Bhutan​.

#### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Religious Nationalism**

The dominance of Mahayana Buddhism is deeply rooted in Bhutan's
identity, enshrined in Article 3 of the Constitution, which calls
Buddhism the "spiritual heritage" of the nation. Religious
institutions are tasked with promoting Buddhist values, and the close
intertwining of religion and government ensures systemic discrimination
against other faiths.

Christians, in particular, face challenges such as the inability to
legally register churches, obtain property for worship, or openly
distribute Christian materials. These institutionalized restrictions are
often reinforced by local authorities and Buddhist monks, especially in
rural areas, who oppose the presence of Christians​.

Government officials play a central role in restricting Bible access.
They actively ensure that Christian activities are limited, often by
denying Christians access to essential documents like non-objection
certificates (NOC) required for employment, education, and property
ownership. This systematic marginalization isolates Christians from the
ideal public life.

**Social and Familial Pressure**

In Bhutan's communal society, conversion to Christianity is seen as a
betrayal of familial and cultural values. Converts are often subjected
to intense pressure from their families to return to Buddhism. Families
may disown converts, cutting them off from communal and financial
support.

This pressure is further intensified by local communities, where
Christians are often seen as disruptors of societal harmony. As a
result, many believers are compelled to practice their faith in secrecy.
Reports indicate that Christians frequently engage in self-censorship,
meaning that even those who own a Bible are unlikely to reveal it
openly. This deeply entrenched caution significantly compounds the
already challenging barriers to accessing Bibles.

**Discrimination in Daily Life**

Christians in Bhutan frequently face discrimination in education and
employment. Children of Christian families are often bullied in schools
and excluded from extracurricular activities. Employment prospects for
Christians are limited, as many jobs require recommendations or
approvals from local leaders who are biased against non-Buddhists.

Even in urban areas where digital access is higher, Christians risk
backlash for engaging with or distributing digital Bible content​.

The combination of governmental barriers, societal hostility, and
familial rejection creates an environment where accessing and sharing
the Bible is fraught with risk. While it is technically possible to
access Bibles online, doing so must often be done in secrecy to avoid
attracting negative attention, further highlighting the precarious
situation for Christians. This underscores the urgent need to address
these forces, ensuring that Bhutanese believers can safely access God's
Word without fear or restraint.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Bhutan

Despite Bhutan's small Christian community of approximately 18,800
believers, the need for Bibles remains critical. With roughly half of
the Christian population estimated to have access to the Scriptures,
there is an unmet demand for up to 10,000 additional copies. These needs
primarily arise within Protestant congregations, as Catholics form a
smaller proportion of the Christian population in Bhutan​.

#### Specific Needs by Format and Language

The preferred format for Bibles is to have printed Bibles due to their
accessibility. However, audio Bibles and Bible apps are also essential,
particularly for younger, tech-savvy individuals who benefit from
Bhutan's relatively high internet penetration.

The full Bible is translated in Dzongkha, the national language of
Bhutan, and most believers speak this language. However, all of the
local believers speak a total of 27 different languages. Out of the 27,
only 8 have a complete Bible translated, 8 have only the New Testament,
1 has partial translations, and 10 languages have no Scripture
translations at all​.

#### Additional Needs for Seekers

Beyond the existing Christian population, there is an opportunity to
reach an estimated 2,500 spiritual seekers who would benefit from access
to Bibles​. Providing Scripture for these individuals requires careful
consideration of formats and content to engage and nurture their
curiosity about the Christian faith.

#### The Clarion Call

The urgency for Bibles in Bhutan reflects more than a logistical need;
it is a spiritual imperative. Addressing these needs requires
prioritizing printed Bibles, supporting translation efforts into
underserved languages, and innovating with audio and digital formats.
With concerted global efforts, every believer and seeker in Bhutan can
experience the transformative power of God's Word.

**How to Pray for Bhutan**

- **For Courage and Provision:** Pray that the believers in Bhutan find
  the courage to sustain their faith amidst restrictions. May they
  miraculously find Bibles that not only strengthen their faith but also
  empower them to build God's kingdom within their communities.

- **For Change in Legislation:** Pray that the government sees followers
  of Christ not as a threat but as a community capable of contributing
  positively to Bhutanese society. May there be a divine shift with the
  current laws in place in order to allow Bibles and Christian
  literature into the country.

- **For Global Partnerships:** Ask for God's hand in bringing together
  the global Christian family, inspiring movements and partnerships
  aimed at supporting the Bhutanese

