---
title: Algeria
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: medium
      clan_oppression: medium
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      dictatorial_paranoia: extreme
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    violent_religious_groups:
      islamic_oppression: strong
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
      ethno_religious_hostility: strong
      clan_oppression: strong
    political_parties:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Algeria

Algeria, with a population of over 46 million people, is home to a small
Christian population, numbering less than 1%, just a little over 170,000
believers. Given the already small number, it is estimated that less
than a third of Algerian Christians have consistent access to Scripture
due to extreme restrictions, revealing a significant and urgent need to
bridge this gap to help support the church.

A complex web of legal, political, and societal barriers severely
restricts Bible access in Algeria. Ordinance 06-03, enacted in 2006,
criminalizes printing, distributing, or possessing religious materials
outside government-approved channels, creating an environment of fear
and self-censorship. While theoretically, the Algerian Bible Society
(branch of the United Bible Societies) is allowed to import Scripture,
reports confirm that since 2018, no new shipments have made it through
customs due to bureaucratic blockage at Algerian ports.

Even more troubling, there is no legal mechanism for churches to
register or operate openly. While Christians may quietly keep a Bible,
it still comes with high risk. The pressure is significantly higher for
believers from a Muslim background (MBBs), who face not only state
monitoring but severe pressure from their families and communities.
Confiscation of Bibles during church raids is not uncommon, despite
these materials being permitted in theory. On certain occasions, owning
Scripture in Arabic or Kabyle can lead to interrogations, imprisonment,
or expulsion from one's home.

Foreign Christians also face discrimination. While Western expatriates
may own a Bible with limited scrutiny, Sub-Saharan African Christian
students, many of whom live in shared housing, are often pressured or
harassed if seen possessing Christian materials.

The lack of access to Bibles is not merely a result of persecution, but
also systemic neglect. The closure of churches has halted nearly all
forms of communal discipleship. With increased monitoring of online
activities and heightened fear of arrest, many Christians are left
isolated, cut off from the Word of God that sustains their faith. For a
nation where most believers are first-generation converts, the absence
of Scripture is devastating.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Algeria?

**Widespread Suppression of Non-Muslims**

In Algeria, the primary barriers to Bible access are driven by a legal
and administrative system designed to suppress non-Muslim worship,
alongside deeply embedded societal hostility. The 2006 Ordinance to
Regulate Non-Muslim Worship (Ordinance 06-03) criminalizes public
expressions of Christianity, prohibits proselytism, and has been used to
justify the closure of every Protestant church in the country.

Today, not a single Protestant church, including those affiliated with
the Evangelical Protestant Church of Algeria (EPA), is operating openly,
and Christians meeting in private homes risk prosecution, fines, and
imprisonment under charges of unauthorized religious assembly.

**Daily Risks and Legal Persecution**

Christians face legal prosecution simply for meeting together or
discussing their faith publicly. Between 2023 and 2025, more than 50
Christians were prosecuted under Ordinance 06-03. Charges include
"practicing worship without prior approval," "proselytism," and "holding
worship in a building not permitted for worship." These cases are not
theoretical; pastors have received prison sentences and fines for merely
gathering with families to worship in closed church compounds.

Muslim Background believers or MBBs, who make up the majority of
Algerian believers, are especially vulnerable. Extended families often
respond with physical abuse, house arrest (especially for women), and
forced expulsion.

**Societal Hostility and Community Pressure**

Beyond government restrictions, social ostracism and mob pressure
severely hinder access to Bibles. MBBs are routinely harassed, excluded
from community life, and discriminated against in the workplace. In many
regions, especially in the Arab-dominated south, public expression of
Christianity can provoke threats, job loss, or physical danger. Simply
displaying a Bible or Christian symbol can expose believers to
questioning or violence.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Algeria

![](/images/countries/DZ_chart.png)

**Reference**: *The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind it.*

In Algeria, multiple persecution forces operate simultaneously to
restrict Bible access, including Islamic oppression, dictatorial
paranoia, clan oppression, and ethno-religious hostility. These forces
are fueled by government officials, extended family members, radical
Islamic leaders, and local ethnic authorities.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression: Enforced Conformity Through Fear**

Islamic oppression in Algeria is systemic and deeply entrenched in both
law and society. Nearly all Algerian Christians are Muslim Background
believers, and for these believers, persecution often begins at home.
Family members are the primary enforcers of Islamic orthodoxy,
subjecting MBBs to physical abuse, house arrest, inheritance loss,
forced divorce, and even the removal of child custody. At least 20
Christians in 2024 faced direct abuse from family and government
authorities.

This oppression is further reinforced by religious leaders who preach
intolerance and by mobs who report Christians to police. Government
rhetoric echoes this sentiment. In one telling example, President
Tebboune declared on National Martyr Day that Algeria must resist
"conspiracies of Christianization and conversion".

Even Christian literature and media are viewed with suspicion. Laws
criminalize anything that might "shake the faith of a Muslim," with
violations carrying harsh prison sentences. In 2024, a pastor's one-year
sentence was upheld for simply gathering Christian families in a closed
church compound.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: A State That Controls Faith Expressions**

Algeria's government, dominated by the National Liberation Front since
independence, remains suspicious of religious diversity, especially
anything perceived as Western or evangelical. Under the guise of
maintaining national identity and unity, the state has forcibly shut
down every Protestant church in the country, closing all 47
EPA-affiliated congregations or independent Protestant churches.

This crackdown includes harassment, constant surveillance, and ongoing
prosecutions. Christians face legal charges under Ordinance 06-03, which
heavily restricts non-Muslim worship. More than 50 believers have been
prosecuted in recent years. Online Christian activity is also a target;
believers fear that their phones are tapped, and their emails monitored.
Christians attempting to import or print Bibles face immediate
roadblocks under government watch.

**Clan Oppression: Community Pressure to Conform**

In many Arab regions of Algeria, tribal structures still dominate social
life, and clan oppression stems from a cultural code where family honor
is paramount. MBBs, especially women, who leave Islam are seen as
betraying not only their religion but their entire family and tribe.
Village elders often lead the charge in pressuring families to take
action, while wider communities shun or retaliate against MBBs through
social exclusion or loss of employment.

Female MBBs are particularly subject to extreme restrictions. Some are
kept under house arrest by relatives, barred from contacting Christians
or even watching Christian TV. This forced isolation cuts them off from
spiritual support and any access to Bibles.

**Ethno-Religious Hostility: Suppressing Kabyle Identity**

Most Algerian Christians live in the Kabyle region, a historically
marginalized Berber area with a distinct language and culture. The
central government has long viewed the Kabyle identity and its openness
to Christianity as a threat to national Arab-Islamic unity. Ethnic
tensions spill into religious life.

Churches in Kabyle areas are heavily monitored, restricted, or shut down
altogether. The state's refusal to register churches, and accusations of
Kabyle Christians supporting separatist groups, further intensify the
crackdown.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Algeria

In many regions, especially among Berber-speaking communities in
Kabylia, Scripture is cherished but scarce, while in Arab-dominated
areas, possession of a Bible can lead to harassment, imprisonment, or
worse. In a country where believers risk everything for their faith, a
number fewer than **10,000 Bibles** to meet the need can already spark
something great.

**A Growing Church, A Growing Demand**

Despite increasing government pressure, Algeria\'s underground Church
continues to grow. In fact, over the past five years, the Christian
population has expanded the last few years, primarily through personal
evangelism and the quiet witness of house churches. This expansion has
far outpaced the availability of Scripture, making the supply of Bibles
a top priority to nurture spiritual growth and disciple the next
generation of believers.

**Bible Formats for Unique Needs**

When it comes to format, **printed Bibles** remain the most urgent need,
especially for believers in remote and rural areas where digital access
is unreliable or unsafe. **Audio Bibles** are also a vital tool,
particularly for women, those who are illiterate, and believers in
highly restricted communities who must worship in secret.

**The Translation Gap**

Algeria's believers speak at least 22 languages. Of these languages:

- Only **9** have a full translation of the Bible.

- **5** more translations of the New Testament only.

- **4** languages have only a portion of the Bible translated.

- **Another 4 languages have no translation at all.**

That means entire ethnic and linguistic communities remain unreached by
the Word of God. Translation projects are urgently needed to ensure that
every Algerian believer can encounter Scripture in a language that
speaks to their heart.

### The Clarion Call

The need for Bibles in Algeria is not simply an access problem; it is a
lifeline for a persecuted and resilient Church. Amidst church closures,
legal intimidation, and family rejection, Algerian Christians are crying
out for the Word of God. This is a moment for the global Church to
respond with prayer, provision, and partnership.

Let us commit to putting Bibles in the hands of our brothers and sisters
in Christ, standing with Algeria's courageous believers by investing in
translations, effective formats, and delivery methods that will break
through the barriers of fear, language, and law.

**How to Pray for Algeria**

- **For Protection:** Pray for Algerian believers, especially new
  believers, that they may find strength and encouragement through
  underground fellowship and digital resources. Pray for the safety of
  those facing threats from both state and society.

- **For Provision and Open Access:** Ask God to reopen doors for the
  import and distribution of Bibles, and for the Bible Society's
  shipments to be released. Pray for creative and secure ways to get
  Scripture into the hands of believers and seekers.

- **For the Growth of the Body of Christ:** Despite severe pressure, the
  Algerian Church continues to exist. Pray for believers to be nourished
  in their faith and for the Spirit to move through homes, small groups,
  and digital platforms so that God's Word can continue to transform
  lives.

