---
title: Cambodia
locale: en
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Cambodia

Cambodia is home to over 17 million people, with a small Christian
community of nearly half a million believers, approximately 2.8% of the
population. Among these believers, less than half have access to a
Bible. While there are minimal legal restrictions when it comes to
accessing Scripture, the need remains great due to other contributing
factors.

Unlike some nations where Bibles are outright restricted, Cambodia
allows the import, storage, and personal ownership of Scripture.
However, Bible printing is limited to the Bible Society, and public
distribution requires government approval to maintain public order.
While these restrictions are relatively low, they can still create
logistical challenges that slow down access to Bibles.

Many Cambodian believers, especially those in rural areas, also face
economic barriers, making it difficult to afford a Bible, even if they
want one. In addition, while internet access is growing, many believers
lack the digital literacy or stable connection needed to use online
Bibles effectively.

Amidst these challenges, the need for Bibles in Cambodia is significant.
With a slowly growing Christian population and many seeking to learn
about the faith, ensuring access to Scripture is essential for
discipleship, evangelism, and spiritual growth.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Cambodia?

#### A Minority Faith in a Buddhist Nation

Christianity in Cambodia has existed for over a century, yet it remains
a small minority in a country where Buddhism is deeply embedded in
national identity. While the constitution provides for religious
freedom, Christianity is often viewed as a foreign or outsider faith,
making it difficult for believers to fully integrate into Cambodian
society. In rural areas, where most Cambodian Christians live, their
minority status can lead to social exclusion, discouraging open faith
practice and Bible ownership.

Religious tolerance has improved in recent years, but challenges
persist. For some Cambodians, leaving Buddhism for Christianity is seen
as a betrayal of Khmer culture, creating tension within families and
communities. This social pressure can lead to hesitancy in seeking out
Bibles, as many new believers fear backlash from their neighbors or even
their own relatives.

#### Economic Barriers: A Bible That Costs Too Much

For many Cambodian Christians, owning a Bible is not simply a matter of
availability, it's a matter of affordability. The cost of a single Bible
can equal up to three days\' wages for the average worker, making it a
luxury that most cannot afford. With poverty still affecting large
portions of the population, especially in rural areas, the priority for
many families is daily survival, not purchasing a Bible.

Although there are organizations working to provide subsidized or free
Bibles, the demand still far outweighs the supply. As one ministry
described it:

> *"The Bible need for new believers in Cambodia is critical. We are
> unable to meet the demanded number of Bibles since so many people are
> coming to faith in Jesus Christ."*

The growing number of believers is outpacing Bible distribution efforts,
leaving thousands of Cambodian Christians without access to the Word of
God.

#### Public Distribution: Restricted but Not Prohibited

Unlike in some countries where distributing Bibles is illegal, Cambodia
does allow Bible distribution, but with some restrictions. Large public
gatherings for evangelism or Bible distribution require prior government
approval, as authorities seek to prevent any activity that might disrupt
public order.

While distributing Bibles within churches or Christian events is
allowed, this requirement for official approval means that mass
distribution efforts are slowed down by bureaucratic processes. This can
make it challenging to get Bibles into the hands of those who need them
most, particularly in remote villages where formal Christian gatherings
are rare.

#### Limited Printing Capabilities

Cambodia allows the legal printing of Bibles, but only through the Bible
Society. While this is not a severe restriction, it does limit who can
print and how many Bibles can be produced. Special Bible paper must be
imported from Spain, adding to the cost and logistical complexity of
production.

#### The Literacy Challenge: Owning a Bible vs. Reading It

Even when Cambodian Christians receive a Bible, many struggle to read
it. A significant portion of believers, especially in rural areas, are
illiterate or semi-literate, making printed Bibles difficult to use.
Many Christians in Cambodia work as farmers, spending long hours in the
fields, leaving them with little time for Bible study or learning to
read Scripture.

For these communities, audio Bibles and oral storytelling are crucial
alternatives. However, access to technology remains a challenge, as not
all rural communities have reliable electricity or internet access to
support digital Bible formats.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Cambodia

With Christians already being a minority, only less than half of them
have access to a Bible. Research estimates that to adequately meet the
current demand, between **50,000 to 100,000 Bibles** are needed.
Additionally, with many seekers coming to faith, additional Bibles are
recommended to support those exploring Christianity and ensure they have
access to God's Word.

While the Cambodian church is adding new believers, this growth still
presents a challenge. How do we disciple new believers if they have no
access to Scripture? Without Bibles, Christians lack the foundation they
need to mature in their faith, share the gospel, and withstand the
pressures of living as a religious minority. The demand for Bibles is
not just about filling a gap; it is about strengthening and sustaining
the church for generations to come.

**Bible Formats for Unique Needs**

In terms of Bible formats, **printed Bibles** remain the top priority.
Many Cambodian Christians live in rural areas with limited internet
access, making physical copies of Scripture essential. However, as
digital literacy and internet connectivity expand, **online Bibles** and
resources provide a secondary yet valuable means of reaching believers,
especially younger generations.

**The Translation Gap**

Translation is another barrier. While Khmer-language Bibles exist, many
ethnic minority groups in Cambodia do not yet have full Bible
translations in their native tongue. A recent milestone was achieved
with the Krung New Testament, completed in February 2024 after nearly
two decades of work. However, this highlights the time-intensive nature
of translation efforts, leaving many ethnic communities waiting years
for a Bible they can fully understand.

Further, Christians in Cambodia speak at least 30 languages, yet:

- Only **15** languages have a full Bible translation.

- **5** languages have only the New Testament.

- **1** language has just a portion of Scripture.

- And **9** languages still have no translation at all.

For these communities, the Bible remains out of reach; not just
physically, but linguistically. Continued efforts in translation work
are critical to ensuring every believer can encounter God's Word in
their heart language.

### A Clarion Call

The call to provide Bibles in Cambodia is urgent. It is more than a
logistical challenge, it is a mission for Christians to answer. Without
Scripture, how can believers be discipled, pastors be equipped, and
seekers come to know Christ?

This is a defining moment for the global church to step in, respond, and
meet the need. By investing in Bible distribution, translation, and
accessibility, we can ensure that every Cambodian Christian, every
seeker, every new believer, every church leader, has access to the Word
of God.

**How to Pray for Cambodia**

- **Provision of Bibles:** Pray that Cambodian believers, especially
  those in rural areas, will receive Bibles in the format they need,
  whether print, audio, or digital.

- **Church Growth & Discipleship:** Ask God to strengthen and equip
  Cambodian Christians with His Word, so they can grow in faith and
  share the gospel.

- **Freedom & Accessibility:** Pray that Bible access will continue to
  remain open and that more opportunities will arise to distribute
  Scripture without restrictions.
