---
title: Chad
locale: en
persecution_drivers:
  engines:
    level:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
      clan_oppression: medium
      christian_denominational_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: medium
      organized_corruption_and_crime: medium
  drivers:
    government_officials:
      dictatorial_paranoia: strong
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
    ethnic_group_leaders:
      clan_oppression: strong
    non_christian_religious_leaders:
      islamic_oppression: very_strong
    christian_religious_leaders:
      christian_denominational_oppression: moderate
    violent_religious_groups:
      islamic_oppression: extreme
    normal_citizens:
      islamic_oppression: strong
    extended_family:
      islamic_oppression: strong
    political_parties:
      islamic_oppression: weak
      dictatorial_paranoia: weak
    organized_crime:
      organized_corruption_and_crime: strong
---

### An Overview of Bible Access in Chad

Chad's Christian population accounts for around a third of its almost 19
million inhabitants, amounting to over 6 million believers. Yet despite
this significant number, access to Bibles remains limited and often
dangerous due to considerable restrictions. Estimates show that only 1
of 5 Christians in Chad own a Bible, leaving millions without regular
access to God's Word.

Across the country, access to Bibles is shaped by a stark regional
divide. While Christians in the south may practice their faith more
openly, believers in at least ten provinces, particularly in the North
and East, face daily risks and sometimes real danger. Terrorist groups
like Boko Haram and ISWAP actively operate in these areas, and importing
or transporting Bibles through them can be life-threatening. These
regions, which affect over a quarter of the national population and
roughly 14% of all Christians, are classified as high-risk zones for
Bible access.

For Muslim Background believers or MBBs, the danger is even more
pronounced, many are forced to hide their faith, and owning a Bible can
be a death sentence. Attacks on churches, homes, and believers are
reported yearly, including killings and forced displacements.

Restrictions impact mostly the northern and eastern parts of the
country. Printing, storing, or distributing Bibles draws suspicion and
is met with varying degrees of resistance depending on the local
context. While some workarounds exist, the climate of fear fosters a
culture of self-censorship. Christians often refrain from openly sharing
their faith or reading the Bible in public.

Economic hardship compounds these challenges. Nearly half of the
population is under poverty. In such conditions, buying a Bible, if
available, is financially out of reach for many families. Chad also
suffers from one of the world's lowest electricity and internet
penetration rates. This drastically limits the feasibility of digital
Bible distribution or online Scripture access. Additionally, with only a
third of the country literate, there's an urgent need for creative and
innovative formats to engage the nation's young, largely unreached
population.

Further, ongoing conflicts with jihadist insurgents and rebel groups
have displaced over 200,000 people internally, while nearly a million
refugees from Sudan's civil war have flooded into eastern Chad. In areas
like Lake Province, where Boko Haram is active, Christian communities
have been repeatedly targeted, resulting in loss of life, destruction of
churches, and forced displacement. MBBs face not only social ostracism
but systemic discrimination. being denied jobs, education, and
government services.

### What's Blocking Bible Access in Chad?

**A Region on the Brink of Collapse**

Chad's geographic position, surrounded by conflict zones like Sudan,
Nigeria, and the Central African Republic, has made it a hotbed for
instability and violence. This external chaos spills across borders and
collides with internal fragility, leaving Christian communities
especially vulnerable.

In regions like the southwest and Lake Chad Basin, armed groups
including Boko Haram and ISWAP routinely target Christians, displacing
thousands and creating deep fear. Entire Christian villages have been
burned, homes looted, and believers forced into hiding or IDP camps,
where discrimination often continues and access to Bibles is virtually
nonexistent.

**Violence, Fear, and Daily Risks**

Across Chad, violence against Christians has surged. From abductions and
killings to church burnings and forced displacements, the threat
landscape is worsening. In 2024 alone, over 1,000 Christians were forced
to flee their homes for faith-related reasons, and hundreds of Christian
homes and properties were attacked.

MBBs suffer especially brutal backlash, often disowned, confined, or
attacked by their own families. In some areas, just accessing a
Christian radio program or carrying a Bible can trigger community
surveillance, harassment, or worse.

**Legal Hurdles and Bureaucratic Suppression**

Even where violence isn't overt, legal and administrative restrictions
silently strangle Bible access. Churches must go through a complicated
registration process and often operate in legal limbo for months or
years. Without legal status, they can't open bank accounts, own
property, or freely distribute Scripture. Activities outside church
buildings are tightly regulated, and permissions are rarely granted.

**Poverty and Infrastructure Gap**

Almost half of the population live in poverty, internet penetration is
very low, and electricity access can even be lower in rural regions.
These infrastructural gaps limit access not only to digital Scripture,
but also to printed and audio formats.

For many Christians, even if Bibles were available, the cost alone makes
them unreachable. In a country where over 5 million people live in
extreme poverty and more than 1 million are refugees or displaced,
survival takes priority over spiritual resources.

### Unmasking the Forces That Restrict Bible Access in Chad

**Reference:** *The more fully shaded the circle in orange, the stronger
the level of persecution. The number of "+" signs indicates the
frequency or intensity of the driving factors behind
it.*![](/images/countries/TD_chart.png)

In Chad, multiple persecution engines operate simultaneously to restrict
Bible access, including **Islamic oppression**, **dictatorial
paranoia**, **organized corruption and crime**, and **clan oppression**.
These engines are driven by a mix of violent jihadist groups, corrupt
government officials, local imams, ethnic leaders, and even family
members.

### A Closer Look at Persecution Engines

A persecution engine is the source of persecution in the country, while
a persecution driver (or actor) is the one "driving" the persecution.
Taking a closer look at these engines and drivers, in proper context,
grants insight on how to solve the problems of Bible access in the
country.

**Islamic Oppression: The Rising Threat of Radicalization and Violence**

Islamic oppression is the most dominant force driving persecution in
Chad, heavily affecting Christian communities on multiple levels.
Radical groups like Boko Haram and the Sanusiyya Brotherhood are known
for their violent campaigns against Christians, particularly in the Lake
Chad region and the southwest. From 2023 until today, armed groups
intensified their attacks in the southwest, killing Christians, burning
down homes, and displacing thousands into IDP camps.

In the north and northeast, where Islam is deeply rooted, MBBs are
especially vulnerable. Families and communities respond with intense
pressure, often evicting MBBs, cutting off financial support, or
subjecting them to house arrest. For instance, one Muslim father
physically assaulted his son after his conversion to Christianity and
cut off all financial support for his university education. In some
areas, even the use of Christian media or wearing symbols of faith is
enough to invite threats.

Despite constitutional protections, authorities often refuse to
recognize name changes for MBBs, making it nearly impossible for them to
update ID documents or access public services. As a result, these
believers must practice their faith in hiding, with little to no access
to Bibles or communal worship.

**Dictatorial Paranoia: Authoritarian Rule and Silencing of Christian
Voices**

Chad's government, under Mahamat Idriss DÃ©by, operates with growing
authoritarianism. The 2021 coup that brought him to power was followed
by election delays, the violent suppression of protests, and the
assassination of opposition figures. These political tensions affect
Christians by shrinking the space for free worship, evangelism, and even
church registration.

Churches are subject to heavy surveillance, particularly if they speak
out on justice or social issues. Some congregations report delays or
outright denial of permits, while Christian teaching materials are
monitored for "anti-state" messaging. For example, in the Wadai and
Salamat regions, Catholic authorities were denied access to land they
had acquired for building a church and hospital, effectively blocking
Christian presence and services in the area.

This environment of fear and suppression discourages open faith
expression and severely restricts access to physical Bibles, especially
in regions outside the capital.

**Organized Corruption and Crime: A System That Punishes Christian
Presence**

Rampant corruption in Chad further blocks access to Scripture. With a
Transparency International score of just 20/100, Chad ranks among the
most corrupt nations globally. Government officials exploit church
registration processes, delay permits, and harass Christian leaders,
especially in areas where the church is growing or seen as influential.

In practice, this means churches may go months or years without legal
status, making them ineligible for property rights or financial
accounts. Meanwhile, organized criminal groups, often in collaboration
with corrupt officials, loot Christian properties and attack believers
with impunity. Reports indicate that police often release individuals
implicated in violent crimes against Christians, including those accused
of killings, without formal investigation or prosecution.

Perpetrators are rarely punished, and in some cases, they disappear
entirely from custody.

**Clan Oppression: Ethnic Pressure and Ritual Coercion in Christian
Communities**

In southern Chad, where many Christians reside, ethnic and clan loyalty
often trumps religious freedom. Christian converts from indigenous
religions face pressure from local leaders to participate in traditional
rituals. Those who refuse may be ostracized or cut off from community
benefits and support.

In the northeast, particularly among the Zaghawa people, Christians face
ethnic marginalization that compounds religious discrimination. In one
reported incident in 2024, a convert was forcibly driven from his home
by his local community, resulting in traumatic separation from his wife
and children. In rural areas, children of converts are harassed in
schools, and spouses are pressured to divorce or disown believers. These
deeply embedded social norms make it especially difficult to sustain a
Christian identity, and by extension, hinder efforts to distribute or
share Bibles.

### The Urgent Need for Bibles in Chad

Despite making up nearly a third of Chad's population, Christians face
an alarming lack of access to Scripture, with a little over 20% having
direct access to a Bible. With over 6 million Christians nationwide,
this means millions are without one. To address this gap, it's estimated
that up to **a million Bibles** are needed to meet the needs of
believers in the country.

**A Steady Church In Need of More Bibles**

Over the past five years, as the population expanded the size of the
Christian population expanded as well adding hundreds of thousands of
new believers to its ranks. This underscores the urgency of equipping
the Body of Christ with Bibles.

Without access to Scripture, discipleship and spiritual growth become
severely hindered, particularly in areas affected by persecution,
conflict, or displacement.

**Bible Formats for Diverse Needs**

In Chad's context, **printed Bibles remain the top priority**. Many
believers live in areas with limited or no access to electricity or the
internet, making digital or audio alternatives challenging.

Nonetheless, in regions with rising mobile phone usage, **Scripture
accessed through the internet** can provide a valuable supplement,
especially among youth and urban populations.

But for the vast majority, print is still the most reliable and tangible
form of access to God's Word.

**The Challenge of Bible Translations**

Chad is home to immense **linguistic diversity, with at least 109 spoken
languages** across the country. Of these languages:

- Only **22 languages** have a full Bible translation.

- **29** have the New Testament only.

- **13** have just a portion of Scripture translated.

- Alarmingly, **45 languages** **still have no Scripture translation at
  all**.

This leaves entire communities unable to encounter God's Word in their
mother tongue. This translation gap not only slows evangelism and
discipleship but also reinforces marginalization, especially among
ethnic minorities and oral cultures.

### The Clarion Call

The need for Bibles in Chad is urgent and unmistakable. Behind every
statistic is a believer praying for the strength to endure, a church
longing to disciple its flock, and MBBs risking everything to follow
Christ. This is more than a logistical challenge; it is a spiritual
emergency.

To answer this call, the global Church must act with boldness,
compassion, and commitment. That means prioritizing translation work,
scaling print and digital Bible distribution, and working alongside
local churches to ensure that every believer has access to Scripture in
a language they understand and a format they can use.

**How to Pray for Chad**

- **Provision and Access:** Pray for the doors of opportunity to open
  for the distribution of Bibles. Ask for innovative solutions that
  navigate the harsh restrictions and leverage the limited connectivity,
  ensuring that every believer in Chad has access to the Word.

- **Global Partnerships:** Let's believe that God would raise up global
  partnerships that address the unique challenges of Bible distribution
  in Chad. Pray for collaborative efforts that bring together resources,
  wisdom, and creativity to overcome the barriers to Bible access.

- **Peace and End of Conflict:** Lift up Chad in prayers for peace,
  especially in regions afflicted by the conflict with Boko Haram. Pray
  for stability and safety that paves the way for not just the free
  movement of people but also the unhindered distribution of Bibles
  across the country.

